# Contacts

Contains the list of all identities known by your instance.

## Own identity

On the top left, you can click on your own identity and change your picture by clicking on the picture's background in the details view.

## Other identities

The listview contains the following:

- identities
- profiles
- identities backed by a profile

In general, it tries to merge what can be merged. Use the filter to show all contacts or only your friends.

### Trust level

In the details panel you can set the trust of your friends:

- Unknown: this is the default
- Never: this is a friend that you don't really trust yet
- Marginal: more or less trustable. An acquaintance, someone you know a bit
- Full: fully trusted, a good friend

For now trust levels have limited functionality. For example, if Link Preview is enabled, it will only be applied to fully trusted friends.

### Locations

The table at the bottom displays all known locations of a friend. If he has several devices you will see them listed here.

### Opinion

Identities get a reputation set by your friends. You can see it with the thumb up and thumb down icon. If an identity has more negative opinions than positive ones, it will lose visibility.

You can set your own opinion on identities:

- Neutral: this is the default
- Positive: this is set by default for your friends and can be used if you want an identity to bypass the opinion of your friends
- Negative: this will effectively ban the identity from your network

## Chat

The context menu over an identity (or the button on the top right) allows to start either a direct chat or a distant chat.

### Direct chat

This is the chat system used with friends you're directly connected to. It's usually faster.

### Distant chat

This is the chat system used with identities that aren't direct friends. It uses the Turtle tunnel system and is thus slower, less reliable but fully anonymous (i.e. your IP is not exposed to the other party).
