# FAQ

Q: Which Retroshare services are implemented?

A: Currently:

- ServiceInfo
- RTT
- Discovery
- Heartbeat
- Status
- Chat
- GxsID
- GxsForums
- Turtle
- FileTransfer
- GxsTunnels

More is coming soon!

Q: Why this project, if Retroshare exists?

A: Xeres is not meant to compete against Retroshare but to advance the P2P platform. By having several implementations, more bugs can be found and [documentation can be written](https://github.com/zapek/Xeres/wiki/Services). Experiments can also be made in one implementation without disturbing the other, then the
results can be shared and discussed. Finally, it also leaves users with more options to choose from.

Xeres itself is focusing on the following points:

Java is a managed language, unlike C++, which should make it more stable. I dare you to crash Xeres by sending some crafted packets. The worst you will get is a disconnection.
The user interface is designed as a client/server model because I believe effective P2P requires an instance that is always running yet easily accessible from anywhere. Mobile devices and their limited battery are ill advised for running a full node. Instead the mobile client (once available) will connect directly to
the instance running at home.
The UI should be lean, non blocking and easy to use. It should also make content creation a breeze because there’s no corporation to “curate” (and censor) anything.

Q: Is Xeres compatible with Retroshare?

A: Yes. You just need Retroshare 0.6.6 or higher.

Q: Are there other projects compatible with the Retroshare protocol?

A: There’s [Rustyshare](https://github.com/sehraf/rustyshare) by sehraf, written in Rust.

Q: Is there technical documentation?

A: Yes, in the [wiki](https://github.com/zapek/Xeres/wiki).

Q: Is it a good idea to add as much random users as possible to improve connectivity?

A: No.

First, although Xeres was designed to scale well, having many friends won’t necessarily improve the experience because of the way the protocol works (simply put: streamed and smart). It’s better to have a few reliable and fast connections than many spotty ones.

Second, the security model of the RS protocol is based around being connected to “trusted nodes”. For example, Retroshare makes some minimal efforts to validate packets sent between nodes but won’t handle all cases. Xeres will log some error or disconnect the peer though no notification will be made of any hacking
attempt.

Third, there’s a frequent misunderstanding on how the protocol works. If for example you look for a file that your friends don’t have, the search will go beyond them, to their friends, friends of friends and so on, with a depth of 7. The file will then get to you through their connections.

And lastly, a friend can roughly discover your areas of interests and activities like subscribed chat rooms, time online and so on. Recent versions of Xeres allow to set a trust level to connected profiles and while this is not being taken advantage of right now, it might be used for a few improvements in that area
later on.

Q: Can Xeres be censored?

A: No.

By using peer to peer connections, there’s no centralized endpoint. Nobody can impose its viewpoint on the whole network. For maximum efficacy, make sure you connect to actual friends and don’t hesitate to disconnect from someone whose content you don’t tolerate. All the power is in your hands.

Q: Why is the MacOS version gone?

A: Because of some (currently non resolved) problems with the packaged version failing to run. It can still run on MacOS if you compile from source directly. See the [instructions](https://github.com/zapek/Xeres/discussions/172).

Q: I get an error while installing the package in Debian 11 about some unknown compression.

A: This is caused by older Debian not supporting zstd. Check [this stack overflow thread](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/669004/zst-compression-not-supported-by-apt-dpkg).

Q: I get an error with Smartscreen/Edge that this software shouldn’t be trusted because it wasn’t downloaded enough times.

A: This happens every time I make a new release. The irony is that Microsoft doesn’t release the source code of Windows but when it comes to Xeres, [I do](https://github.com/zapek/Xeres). So who should be trusted? Anyway, this is not new and the Redmond based company has a nonsensical way of thinking that every new
software is potentially dangerous. Just dismiss those warnings and report the software as safe if you can do so (it helps!). Note that Windows Defender used to report Xeres as plain malware but it seems to have been fixed after I complained to them.