# Startup arguments

When running Xeres manually, you can provide the following command options. This is only for advanced usage and isn't normally needed.

- `--no-gui`: start without a UI. Can be used to run Xeres in headless mode. Use another instance with `--remote-connect` to connect to it.
- `--iconified`: start iconified into the tray. This is useful for auto startup.
- `--data-dir=<path>`: specify the data directory. This is where Xeres stores all its user files. If you want to run several instances, they each need to have a different data directory.
- `--control-address=<host>`: specify the address to bind to for incoming remote access (defaults to localhost only).
- `--control-port=<port>`: specify the control port for remote access. This is the port the UI will connect to. If you want to run several instances, they each need to have a different control port, but Xeres will try to find a free slot automatically (starting from 1066) so this argument is rarely needed.
- `--no-control-password`: do not protect the control address with a password. The password is auto-generated on the first run and is visible in the settings. It can be changed or disabled.
- `--server-address=<host>`: specify a local address to bind to (if not specified, binds to all interfaces).
- `--server-port=<port>`: specify the local port to bind to for incoming connections. By default, Xeres chooses a random port and uses it forever for the same instance.
- `--fast-shutdown`: ignore proper shutdown procedure. This is mostly useful for testing when you need to quickly run/shutdown Xeres instances. Not needed for normal usage.
- `--server-only`: only accepts incoming connections, do not make outgoing ones. Mostly useful for chat servers.
- `--remote-connect:<host>[:<port>]`: starts as a UI client and connects to the specified node. You can also do this across machines on a LAN. Be wary that the connection is not encrypted. Use SSH tunnels if you want to overcome that limitation.
- `--remote-password=<password>`: password to use when connecting remotely
- `--version`: print the version of the software
- `--help`: print the help message